 00:05
Welcome everybody to another uh sessions of the boot camp for speed jagaton 2025. It's my pleasure to co-host you again. Uh it's uh it's our fifth sessions on digital tweening in geothermal sector. My name is Leila Hashimi. I work as a scientist at TNO and today I have a pleasure to host you in this session that we will have a presenter also from TNO Yona port he will be presenting us uh about the digital twin that we have in in our company developing. So uh before just uh going to the uh to
00:45
this session start these sessions I wanted to remind you that you will be muted during the sessions but please post your questions in the chat box. Uh so I will raise it up and uh ask it at the end of the sessions. Um so if you have any further questions and uh you may not have the chance to uh um ask it today, you can still have uh yeah send it in the discord channels. And by the way, if you haven't watched the previous uh sessions on uh the introducing the challenge and the data set, please do so
01:21
because that is one of the important sessions that you wanted to get informed about the challenge itself and how you can get access to the data set and etc. Just uh before starting the session, I would like also to take the chance to thank our sponsors who are supporting us uh for this Joe Hackathon and uh yeah and also thank you for joining us today. Uh so without further ado, I would like to give the floors to our speakers. Yo, please the floors is yours. >> Yes, thank you. Let me share my screen.
02:06
You see my screen, right? >> It's the moment. Yeah. Yes, I see a screen but not in the full screen mode. >> Yes, I just put it in full screen. >> Yeah. Very good. >> All right. Uh thank you Leila for the introduction uh to the Geohexecton and myself. Uh my name is Yona Ports. I'm a colleague of Leila uh and some of the others organizing this year's edition of the geohackathon. Uh I'm a research scientist at the TNO, the Dutch Institute for Applied Research. Uh and there I work on the
02:44
combination of uh of AI, digital technologies and uh the energy sector. And today I will be presenting to you uh uh a presentation on uh on the concept of digital twins uh and uh also the digital twinning in the geothermal sector. Uh so at TNO we're also developing uh our own uh open-source digital twin together with partners. Uh so we'll also cover that. Uh and the main reason I'm doing that because well the challenge of course is on on rack and agentic AI. Uh and as I also will uh
03:20
go over uh at towards the end of my presentation in a few slides uh these systems of course rack and Aenti they don't live in a bubble by itself. they need to be integrated into uh a bigger system uh in which they can be used to streamline workflows uh and we think that digital twin systems are the ideal candidates uh to integrate with rag and agentic AI. So I will start my presentation uh first with a high level uh general introduction to digital twins. some definitions, technologies, concepts uh and also a few uh examples
04:00
from uh high level examples from other uh sectors. Then I will go to my second part uh more into the details of digital twinning in the geothermal uh energy sector particularly in the in the Dutch sector where we have most experience uh where I will briefly explain why we're developing a digital twin what are the challenges that we're trying to address with this and then I will also briefly give an impression of the the digital twin that uh that we are currently developing and then as said finally I
04:33
have a a few slides on uh on how the digital twin relates to the challenge of this geohhackathon. So starting out with my introduction to digital twins. So as probably most of you uh know we live in a physical world uh and within this physical world there's a bunch of different uh systems active processes going on. for instance, extracting uh heat from uh from the underground. Uh it might be uh creating or recycling plastic bottles uh or even uh driving cars very fast. These are all uh processes, things, systems going on
05:15
in this physical world uh from which we want to gain insights in order to improve the operation or improve these processes. So we want to drive our cars faster. We want to uh create more efficient uh or effective recycled plastic bottles. Uh and we want to improve the economics uh of operating a geothermal well. However, gaining these insights from the physical world uh can be quite expensive or uh slow uh because uh of course we need to to gain insight. We need to measure things uh that can take a while. we need to do measurement
05:55
campaigns or we need to set up experiments. If we want to say okay what if we if I change this parameter how will it affect my uh my system? If we do that in the physical world we need to do a lot of experiments which take of course time uh and uh and can be quite costly to uh to acquire this insights and at the same time we also need to do this over and over again because these systems are of course also dynamic and uh and everchanging. So it's not just costly and slow once, it's costly and
06:26
slow uh constantly. So one thing we can do instead of repeating constantly these uh experiments or this acquiring of insights in the physical world, we can build a virtual copy of our physical world of our process. So we can make uh a virtual copy on a computer of our geothermal installation of our plastics recycling uh plant or of our car. And the benefit of making this virtual copy that mimics the physical world is of course that they are much faster. We can much more quickly analyze a bunch of
07:04
different scenarios than we would be able to do in the real world. That also of course makes it uh a lot cheaper especially once we have established uh this virtual copy uh this digital twin then we can run it constantly uh quite uh effectively uh and a lot cheaper than building a uh a a a experimental setup to mimic the physical world uh in a in a tangible way. Uh and they are typically also quite uh adaptable. So we can redo experiments if we can if something changes about our physical world. It's
07:42
relatively easy to make an addition to our virtual copy uh in order to adapt it to uh to the changing nature of the process that we are trying to uh to model in the physical world. So from that we can gain insights uh from the virtual copy of our physical world and then apply that to the process that we're trying to uh replicate uh and then help optimize uh the the actual physical process to make sure that it runs uh more efficiently uh more cost effectively more uh more economically uh or more sustainably.
08:23
So what how do we define a digital twin? So as I already said of course you have the two key uh aspects of it which are on one hand the physical system uh the thing that we of course are interested in in the actual world that we're trying to uh to to replicate model and improve and then we have uh the virtual system which is the this digital twin of uh of that physical counterpart that we use to do this analysis and to gain insights from that we can apply into the physical system. uh and if you uh ask uh NAZA
09:00
then then they will say that a digital twin is a virtual representation that serves as the real time digital counterpart of a physical object uh or process uh and all of those things I will later on also uh get to uh uh in my presentation. Okay, what do we actually mean uh by real time? Uh what yeah what is that in a practical sense? Uh but if we look at digital twinning uh typically we make a distinction uh in three levels uh of a digital uh sort of model twin system. So if we are just uh with the
09:40
current view where we have a physical system and we have on the other side a virtual copy of that system then we typically talk about a digital model. Uh and this is of course one of the earliest stages in the development of a of a digital twin. Uh starts of course with modeling of using physical uh equations, mathematical relations uh to represent digitally the physical system. And of course uh this copies our uh our physical system but it isn't necessarily already integrated with the the physical
10:14
system. So we can model the process uh but we're not directly connected to the physical system. That is the next uh step in uh in our ladder uh what we call a digital shadow. So in this case we get uh we have a connection between the physical system and the virtual system where we stream uh static or real-time data from the physical system into the virtual system and the virtual system adapts uh adapts to the changing parameters that we get from the physical system from uh sensors or reports uh or
10:50
or other sources of information. uh and then also processes those uh that information uh in order to help us better uh understand uh the the physical system in uh in the digital way and then finally when we complete the loop and we also make a connection from the virtual system uh back to the physical system. So in the form of feedback. So we've now processed information that we got from our physical system uh with our models with our processing uh layers uh and we we got actual insights from that
11:26
actionable uh uh things that we can apply to our physical system. And once we make that connection backwards uh that now also conclusions we draw from our virtual system actually have an impact on the physical system. That is typically uh when we start talking about a a digital twin. So uh typ yeah yeah to us it's all about the the level of connection you have between the physical and the virtual part of the equation. uh and that uh to us is what makes a uh a digital twin uh more than just a
12:02
digital model or in this or a digital uh shadow. So when we look at the the different parts of a digital twin system, it typically consists of five main components that uh that that are pretty much always present uh in a a a digital twin system. So these are of course first the sensors the often times also referred to the data layer. Uh so this is the part connecting to the physical system that actually provides uh the information the uh about what is the state of the the physical system. uh because if we don't if we're blind to
12:43
our physical system then of course we there's no use uh of our digital twin because we cannot say anything about uh uh what is currently actually going on in our physical system. And then we actually pretty much go back to the the physical model where we're just using our digital counterpart to understand general relationships about the the system uh in general but we're not really targeting a specific process specific system that exists in the real world out there. Then of course we need uh very crucial
13:16
aspect is the the digital infrastructure. So it's nice if we can measure things with our sensors. Uh but of course we also need to be able to take that information from the sensors and bring it into our uh our digital infrastructure. Uh so we need of course database, we need the data acquisition uh software. Uh we need a management system, we need a framework that can talk between different aspects of the digital uh digital and physical side of the equation. uh uh cuz without it of course we uh we cannot access the actual
13:51
uh information coming from the system. Then another key aspect is uh is that of data processing. Uh so of course we get a lot of data in there uh but if we want to do anything with this data that is is useful to us uh then we also need uh a layer that can process the data make sure it's all in the right format uh what we expect. Make sure that uh noisy data is filtered out that gaps in the data are either filled in or at least uh flagged uh and just make sure that everything is in a nice structured way such that our
14:27
next layer our modeling layer can uh easily work with it. So if we have gaps in our data then it becomes hard to model or to work with or if we have very noisy data can be hard to derive uh derive insights from it. So this data processing is uh is very important and then of course uh at the heart of the the digital twin is is the modeling capability. So not just being able to process and say something about data coming in but also using that data to do calculations and to make uh predictions uh about the physical system that can
15:04
help uh us further and get into the next layer which is uh analytics. So once we have done the processing, gotten the data, process it, uh modeled uh new insights, then of course we need to be able to uh uh to do something with uh with those those things that we have modeled and processed. Uh and that is where the the analytics layer uh come in and that's typically a uh some sort of graphic user interface uh in which you can uh show results uh where people can play around with uh the models uh with
15:38
the uh with the process data uh and actually derive uh insights from it that can be then in the end applied to the physical system in order to close this uh this digital twin loop from uh from physical system to digital system and digital system back into the the physical system. Uh so when you put that all together uh you get uh a a system that can take in information from uh a variety of sources. So uh of course key is sensor data but in addition to that also what relates to uh the challenge uh of the
16:16
geohackon uh is is of course text data. There's a lot of information in text that doesn't come from a more structured way like sensors, but that needs to be extracted somehow uh through through other means and looking into the future uh or potentially even in the the bonus challenges of of this year's geohack. Uh also looking into uh uh even more additional sources of data such as uh video or or images uh using multimodal uh models in order to extract information not just from sensors and
16:55
text but also from from images within those text or uh or separate sources. Then all of that information uh is processed by this central brain the the digital twin of the combination of data processing uh modeling uh and then in the end of course it needs to lead to outcomes uh so it needs to be able to not only just visualize uh currently what is going on but also uh explain what is going on uh and even in the future potentially propose actions uh that uh that can be done in the physical system in order to uh to optimize its
17:34
operation and all of this should be of course in the end in support uh of an operator. So in our view there there should always be a human in the loop to make sure that uh of course the digital system uh leads to insights that make sense uh and that the actions that it proposes to take are checked by a human before they're directly implemented into the physical system. So in practice uh when we developed what this looks like is that typically a digital twin consists of uh a central core uh which we call a framework layer
18:12
which is uh most of the the software side of the digital twin uh that contains a model layer with and here a model is uh something that basically does a calculation. It takes an input and provides you an output. Uh and then those models can be used by on one hand on the one hand a module layer which is more the the real time approach. Uh so this will also work on the schedule. So every 5 minutes we do this calculation or every day we do this calculation, every half an hour we do this calculation. Uh and different modules
18:50
can of course share different models in the back end. uh but they work on a on a schedule and you basically define them once you say okay this I want to do uh every half an hour and then you don't have to worry about it and then the the the framework will take care uh of the fact that that this module is executed uh at every uh at every time step that you have defined. Uh and then next to that uh you also have the application layer and that is something that's more for uh uh for analysis. So it's uh it's
19:24
something that doesn't uh that doesn't work on a specific uh time frame. It's something that a user can interact with and do uh analysis with. So for instance uh doing a uh a calculation of your production rates uh on the one hand that of course uses a model and that can be done in a module where you just calculate what is the current production rate based on the uh information we have. Uh but you can also do it in an application in order to do scenario analysis. So you can say okay well what now if I change
19:58
my top site uh pressure uh from 30 to 20 bars how will that impact uh my production and of course then how if my production decreases how will that impact uh the heat I can deliver and of course my economics. So with that you can uh play around with uh with your models in the back end uh to also see what are the impacts of changing certain parameters in my control settings uh and how uh uh how does that in the end impact the the operation of my plant as a whole. Then uh next to this uh general framework layer you have three
20:36
additional layers that it interfaces with. Uh at the foundation of course you have the the database layer here in blue uh which is where you get the the the the information from your sensors into your uh into your database in your uh your digital twin and then use that uh information from the database in order to do the calculations with the models in the modules and the applications. Uh and then on top of that uh you have the graphical user interface the guey uh which is the way in which a human can of
21:13
course interact with uh all of the backend code. Uh so that is a visualization uh in in plots but also yeah just being able to uh to uh to run the applications work with the applications. Uh of course you need a a visual layer for that. And then uh besides that you have uh something we call a project layer uh which is more about okay what is the information in my digital twin. So if I work with one operator they of course have one certain combination uh connection to their database uh but the other operator has a
21:50
combination to their database and of course you don't want all of them to just be able to uh to work with or access each other's information. Uh so the project layer makes sure that everything is specific to a a certain uh user but also to a certain uh asset. So you can with this uh this framework you can uh you can build a digital twin for an entire plant but you can also build a digital twin for just the ESP or just the uh the injection pump or just the production well uh and uh and to sort to
22:26
separate those out. So if you say okay today I want to work with my digital twin uh for uh for my whole plant uh then I load my plant uh project. If I just want to work uh on my uh on my ESP today then I'm just loading the ESP uh ESP project and then I'm not bothered with all the information of the whole plant that I don't need if I'm uh if I'm trying to optimize my ESP uh operation. So when you look at the the characteristics that a uh a dig typical digital twin uh should have
23:04
uh I have I call it uh the the five uh a uh starting of course first with uh accurate in the end your your digital twin should be an accurate representation uh of your uh of your physical process because if it's not accurate uh then of course the insights we derive from it are incorrect and it can lead to to uh to of course very bad outcomes if I start implementing uh bad uh bad results uh into my physical system. Uh of course uh next to that we have what I call actual. So this is uh related to
23:43
the the time frame of your digital twin. So in the the the definition of NAZA it mentioned uh real time but in the end real time is also quite a vague concept. uh because what well what is real time and in the end real time depends on the the system or the process that you're working with. So uh if you're doing uh something that has really high frequencies like uh like a wind turbine uh then you need to be much faster in your calculations than if you work with uh with for instance the geothermal
24:16
digital twin where we get data every 5 minutes. Then of course uh we can if we can do calculations uh in uh in 1 second nice but we don't need to do calculations every second if we get uh information from our physical system only uh every five uh minutes. So together this accurate and actual uh I also if we use another a word you can call appropriate. So in the end your digital twin should be uh in in its scale it should be appropriate to the the physical system that you're applying it to. So that also goes for accuracy. I
24:54
can do a very accurate detailed uh CFD analysis for an entire digital entire geothermal plant. Uh but in the end on my day-to-day operations uh I'm not interested in all the finer details. I'm more interested uh in in high level nal analysis results that already provide me uh the rough ballpark numbers for for me to be able to make uh accurate decisions with uh uh but on the other hand of course I might be able to if I'm really interested in the in the the flow pattern through my uh uh through my ESP
25:32
pump then uh I might be interested in a much more highfidelity uh model. Uh so of course it's yeah in the end you need to make a digital twin uh that is appropriate to uh in both in uh in fidelity as well as in uh in the time it takes to do the the the simulations and make sure that that is appropriate to the the system that you're uh developing it for. Then the next uh characteristics uh that is very important is uh is the adaptability. I already mentioned it briefly uh before as well.
26:07
So of course it's it doesn't make sense that uh if it takes me a very long time to uh to set up this digital twin that if tiny bit changes to my physical system. So if I now install an additional filter system that I have to redo the entire digital twin. So uh when you create a digital twin when you set up a digital twin uh basically from the the foundational uh design of the architecture of your digital framework you need to keep in mind that it should be adaptable that if there's uh something new coming into the
26:41
system uh that you can easily adapt it uh to uh to that new system that you can make a new model uh that covers that uh that particular part of the system and that you can easily integrate that model with the rest of your uh with the rest of the subp parts of the of the process. Uh and you don't have to completely reimagine what your digital twin should look like. Then an important one is also that the the digital twin in the end leads to uh insights that are actionable. So uh that's all about this completing the the
27:19
loop from your virtual system back to your physical system. So of course it's already very valuable that you can get information from your physical system into your digital system and you have one centralized way in which you can uh can can see the the data coming in and even process the data and potentially also do some modeling with this data. Uh but in the end if you want to to complete the loop of the digital twin uh you need uh actionable insights from your digital twin. So you need your
27:50
models to be able to tell you something uh about the system uh that you didn't know before uh and also something that is uh is implementable. So uh so something that you can actually uh decide to to change in your physical system. So it should tell you for instance well if you uh if you increase your wellhead pressure by by 2.4 four bars then we think that uh that your efficiency of your system increases by by 3% which leads to this much uh uh cost reduction uh over uh the next 5 years. So that is the type of things
28:29
that you would like to see out of your uh out of your digital twin. Uh and not just that it tells you well currently your pressure is this of course uh that's a first step but if you want to really uh complete the loop you need to be uh to derive more actionable insights from the digital twin system. And then finally uh of course your digital twin also should be uh in some part automated. So of course that's in the end also why we're developing a digital twin. A lot of these things we can
28:59
already do. We can already get our information. We can already process the information. We can do modeling. Uh but in the old school way all of that is done uh mostly manually or in separate Excel sheets uh or even on paper. Uh uh and there's a lot of overhead between going from one step to the next. So in the end the digital twin should also help automate these processes. Uh and if you have a nice fancy visualization uh digital uh digital copy of your physical system but still almost everything you have to do auto you have
29:35
to do manually uh and rerun manually do the the the uh the ingress of your data manually. Of course then what is the point of having this digital twin in the first place? So of course not maybe not everything should be automated. So that's why I also don't didn't uh uh make it autonomous here because that of course also leads to additional risk. We still want to keep uh the human in the loop. Uh but in the end automation is is a big driver uh for the creation of a digital twin. And I think also a big driver for
30:08
this challenge of of of rag and agentic AI is also in uh in automation in making uh processes uh uh yeah automating process and making processes and workflows uh more efficient and taking a lot of the the tedious work out of the hands of the operator uh and having them do uh more of the deriving the insights and an analyzing the results and thinking about ways of how to implement that uh the results we get from the digital system into and applying them to uh to uh to optimize the physical system.
30:46
So I have a few uh before I get to the the geothermal sector I have a few examples uh from other sectors and that's just to give you a taste uh of where these things uh can be applied and have been applied in in the past because digital twin uh is very broad and you can make a digital twin of really a small very specific process or you can make a digital twin of the entire world. There's there's actually a uh a uh a program or an initiative going on currently uh that is trying to build a
31:18
digital twin of the entire earth. Uh yeah, you can say do we want that or how much you how useful can it be but I think it is a nice uh ambition and it also shows you the scale of it. Uh and that's also where the appropriateness comes uh in uh uh in the picture. Again, if you do the whole world, uh, then of course you need to, uh, you can't do it super detailed. If you do a very small, uh, uh, small pump, then you can go a bit more detailed. But, uh, well, a nice example of digital twins in practice is
31:54
that of NAZA. Uh and actually NAZA was basically if you look at the history of digital twins. Uh it originated with NAZA uh as they built the the first digital twin I think in the '60s or '7s uh in response to the the disaster of the Apollo 13 uh shuttle. Uh they made a digital twin of the the gas tank that led to the uh the explosion uh of the of the vessel. Uh and they made a a digital counterpart of that vessel. uh in order to uh uh to analyze what was the cause of the the issue that led to the
32:32
disaster. Uh but even nowadays uh NAZA does quite a lot on on digital twins. Of course the uh the definition I showed you earlier came from NAZA uh uh but they really built digital twin into most of the most of what they do. A lot of their systems have digital twins. Even the the facilities where they work in, they all uh have their own digital twin that guides uh how this is how the how the the their actual building is being managed and controlled. Then another nice example uh of some of our colleagues at TNO is also the the
33:10
example of digital twins for smart cities. So this is more of an example of the higher level one where you're not not really managing just one physical system but you're managing a a broader uh collection of different system and processes uh in one that spans quite a big uh spatial but also temporal uh domain. So they uh they actually have now started a startup based on work that was done in their company previously where they make digital twins uh for uh for city planning basically. So they
33:43
have bunch of different models uh that combine to that can calculate traffic flows that can calculate the dispersion of uh uh of of pollutants uh that can calculate noise levels in different uh parts of the cities and then of course they get measurements from uh from load sensors in the roads uh or campaigns where they measure the the the pollutants in the air and they use that information uh to to validate their models and and they can uh can use the models together with m municipalities in order to uh
34:19
uh to plan uh uh parts of the city. So say we want to uh we need to do road works. What will be the impact if we close this road uh and cars cannot drive on it anymore? Will the the how will the pollution levels in the neighborhoods around that uh part uh increase? How will uh how will noise be affected in that part of the the area? Uh and is that within the the allowed limits or should we take different counter measures uh in order to to mitigate those issues? Also of course looking into expansion of the city. So where
34:55
where should we uh should we based on traffic flows where should we build uh new uh new neighborhoods uh and in what shape what sort of housing should we build there? uh uh and how does that impact the who uh who lives there and and how does that then impact the traffic flows and and all these other things. So that's a lot of complex processes that are all being captured in this digital uh system that can be used to make uh decisions on the the planning of uh a large city such as Amsterdam.
35:29
And then on the renewable energy sides uh of course geothermal is not the the only sector working on digital twins. I think a good example there is is GE which uh to me is is one of the front runners in in the field of digital twinning uh where they have made extensive digital twins of of not just uh whole wind farms but also the the detailed wind turbine components uh themselves. uh and are using this to uh uh to model the and uh monitor the status of these uh these assets and also help with planning uh maintenance uh of these of
36:07
these systems to make sure that they can minimize the downtime uh of uh of their wind turbines. So next I will have a few uh slides on uh on what we do uh in digital twinning for geothermal energy. uh and I have in between brackets uh in the Dutch sector because most of the experience that we have uh is in the Dutch sector. So most of the partners we work with are in the Dutch Dutch sectors. the people that are using our digital twins and who are advising us on the development of the digital twin mostly within uh the Dutch
36:43
sector although we're also looking more and more outside of the Netherlands into uh into other parts of Europe as well uh to see where we can what we can add to our digital twin to also uh provide uh other parts of the sector with uh with useful digital twinning technology and of course the keen eye among you will notice that the picture I'm showing is is not in the Netherlands. Uh uh most of our plants don't have this nice steam coming out. It's all low enthalpy uh enthalpy system. So it's mostly used for direct
37:19
uh direct use and heating of uh of municipalities uh or uh or green houses. And the second thing that gave it away that it's not in the Netherlands is that this hill in the back is probably taller than uh than our highest mountain. Uh so starting off with the motivation of why we uh we started developing this digital twin uh at at you know uh for the Dutch geothermal energy of course it started with uh the growth of the sector. So uh I think 20 years ago geothermal energy was uh in the Netherlands at least quite and globally
37:58
as well not as big as today. In the Netherlands, it was mostly a few uh a few greenhouse operators, greenhouse farmers uh that had a geothermal well next to their farm uh in order to provide a nice steady uh stream of heat that they could use to uh to power their uh or to heat up their their green houses in order to grow uh vegetables for the Dutch market. Uh but we of course see that now more and more uh geothermal is in the growth. It's both in this uh greenhouse sector. See more and more uh greenhouse owners are
38:34
interested in geothermal wells but you also see it for uh for district heating uh in the Netherlands of course it gets cold in the winter. Uh so having a steady source of uh of heat of 80 to 90 degree heat to help also uh with uh with heat networks help uh heat up the houses in uh in nearby municipalities is seeing quite a boom. Uh and of course uh in order to manage that we uh we think digital twins can uh can help a lot because these uh these systems are quite complex uh to to operate and uh and produce from
39:13
the the margins are quite uh quite low because you're producing heat. You're not producing very valuable oil. It's mostly just heat or electricity. uh so you need and the the processes in uh in the brain and the interaction of the brain with the system can be quite complex. I'll come to that later on as well. Uh so there is a need to to have digital systems to help uh to help support operators uh in knowing what is going on in their system, how should I operate my system in order to get the
39:44
most out of it. And of course coupled with uh the growth of of the geothermal sector uh is also a growth in in data availability that is also uh not just in the Netherlands and not just in the geothermal sector is it's across sectors. Uh data is becoming much easier to uh is much cheaper to to gather. So sensors are becoming cheaper and more available uh but also ways in order to to manage and process data and extract uh knowledge from the data. So so datadriven methods, machine learning uh
40:22
getting insight from data is also growing. So uh that's also an interesting feedback loop where data is becoming more available. uh people start using this data, extracting valuable insights from the data and that then also leads to people uh putting more investments into gathering more data. So uh adding more sensors to their system since they see the value of these sensors. uh uh they also they will invest more in sensors which leads to of course additional increase in data availability uh which uh which then of course keeps
40:59
feeding these uh this nice positive feedback loop. Uh but of course you need digital systems uh digital twins in order to uh uh to handle process and uh and extract value from this uh this increase in data availability. And then finally uh what also uh what is where we started and what drove us is also the the knowledge transfer from the the oil and gas industry. So uh before geothermal started the digital twinning before dig geothermal at least in the Netherlands was even very big of course uh the the oil and gas sector was
41:34
already developing uh this digital oil field uh systems where they uh they used well they didn't maybe didn't call it digital twinning uh but it used or it was used quite a lot of the same fundamental building blocks as a digital twin would in order to to help optimize production. in the oil and gas sector. Uh and a lot of that information, those those insights, those knowhows can be transferred quite easily uh to the geothermal sector in order to uh to to boost the uptake of uh of these uh of
42:10
these digital technologies and that is also where we as started. So originally we did a lot of work uh on the in the oil and gas sector. We also were quite active in the digital oil field. uh uh part of the the oil and gas sector. We also worked with with partners in the Netherlands to develop modules and models applications for their digital uh uh digital oil fields uh systems. And a lot of the the knowledge experience that we gained in those projects uh is what we used to build up uh up the the the
42:47
the digital twin that we're now developing for the geothermal sector. So when you look at the the the challenges that with this digital twin uh we're trying to address in the geothermal sector uh and also where the digital twin could uh could help. uh it starts of course with general plant and uh and asset performance management. So just having a general indication how is my plan doing uh what is the status of the different assets components of my system uh how is my economics looking that is of course a main driver a first
43:25
uh starting point of uh of your digital twin is just knowing what is going on and also being able to use that information to uh to uh improve the the management of uh of our system and especially in the Netherlands uh where uh geothermal is mainly used uh in direct use. Uh being able to for instance follow uh and plan around the the seasonal changes in heat demand uh is is quite important. So if you're uh yeah we we can't produce steam to generate uh electricity which of course can be used in many different ways. Uh
44:01
we in the Netherlands pretty primarily uh produce heat uh and the the interest in heat uh fluctuates heavily throughout the year. Of course, in winter, everyone wants to keep their house warm, but in summer, uh almost nobody uh wants this heat. Uh and of course, uh as a geothermal operator, we need to be able to uh uh you need to be able to uh work around that seasonal uh seasonal variations. If you just shut down your your well uh for uh for five or four months, of course you need to be able to
44:38
make your economics work in uh in the other uh 7 to 8 months that you are operational uh or you need to also look into storage options in which you can uh generate heat in winter uh and then or in summer I mean and then use that to supplement your production in uh in the winter. Of course uh then also a big challenge to address is the the modeling of complex uh physical phenomena. So uh in a geothermal well uh we have a brine that is both hot and very salty and corrosive uh uh and that also flows quite high.
45:14
The the flow rates in uh in geothermal wells are are really high because we need to to get these uh uh these high uh heating rates. Uh so we we're working with big pipes with large flow rates uh and that of course leads to uh leads also to corrosion of your pipes especially in in bands uh and uh and points where your uh uh your trajectory or your well narrows uh you can really uh see the effects of erosion in in some cases. So being able to model that uh and estimate how that impacts your uh uh
45:52
the integrity of your system is is also very important. Of course next to that you also have uh have corrosion uh that that can be an issue uh depending on the brine that you're producing. Uh you can have a lot of CO2 in your uh in your system. Uh and that can of course cause CO2 corrosion if there's in some way oxygen that ingresses into your system. that can also lead uh to uh to oxygen corrosion. And there's a bunch of different other corrosion types that depending on uh the brine
46:26
can have a very negative impact on uh on on the integrity of your uh of your well. This is becoming slowly less and less of an issue as we're moving to GRE lined systems. uh but also especially for older systems. This is really an important thing to be able to uh uh to model uh estimate and also manage. And then finally a big one uh also again depending on the the type of brine you're producing can be scaling. So this is uh of course when you uh bring your brine that is at two 200 to 300 bars uh
47:02
3 km depth. Uh if you bring that up to uh to a couple bars or a couple dozen bars, uh of course uh a lot will change about the composition of your uh your fluid and your gas. Uh uh and this can lead to uh to the precipitation of certain compounds into uh into your uh onto the sides of your your wall which can severely clog up uh the system which of course reduces the amount you are producing. uh uh and this will significantly impact also the the economics and operation of your plant. So this is also something you need to be
47:38
able to estimate and uh hopefully also uh by proper operation mitigate or even prevent entirely. So next to that and also related to these complex physical phenomena is the monitoring and planning of of your maintenance. Uh so there's of course a bunch of different assets in a geothermal plant that are working together. Uh and all of these need to operate well uh in order to to be able for the whole system to to work. Uh so being also able to to monitor the condition of these different subsystems
48:13
uh and potentially even look ahead and estimate and plan uh okay do I see degradation in my system? uh if yes uh then when should I plan the replacement of uh of my system and especially uh one thing to highlight here are ESPs. So the uh electrical submersible pumps uh which are the main driver of the flow uh from the the reservoir to the to the top side uh without an ESP most uh most wells at least in the Netherlands uh can't produce naturally. So you need to install a pump uh in your production
48:48
well that can uh boost your uh your water to the surface. Uh but often times these ESPs have been designed uh for uh for oil and gas installations. Uh and if you put them into an environment in a geothermal well which is water, it's hot temperatures, it's uh it's corrosive. Uh brines uh they are usually not designed for operating in these sort of systems. So they can uh very quickly degrade and uh the lifespan typical lifespan uh that you encounter can be two to three years. Uh and this can be these things can cost
49:26
tons uh to replace. So really knowing uh what is the status of my ESP uh is key because not only does it cost money to of course when it breaks down and we need to buy a new one but also I need to shut down my operation which will also cost me uh uh uh money in uh in lost revenues that uh that I can't produce uh and deliver energy or uh or heat to my clients. Uh so being able to also plan based on insights you get from the data to see okay when should I replace my my system or my asset uh can also
50:01
help uh in uh in the economics of your plant uh and improve that significantly. Then I already uh talked about it a bit in the the modeling of the complex physical phenomena. But maintaining well integrity is is also key uh part of uh of the operation of any geothermal system. By law, of course, you need to be able to prove uh at least in the Netherlands, you need to be able to prove that uh that the the integrity of your well system uh is being maintained. Uh so you need to be able to make sure
50:35
that uh your corrosion or erosion of your uh of your uh tubing uh is not uh too far. You need to be able to prove that your pressures are within uh allowable limits. So having a uh what we call a well integrity management system uh is is key and also can be very a lot of operators will have them but integrating that into a digital twin framework is of course a natural uh next uh step. Uh and then finally also important challenge to address is that of integration with the the subsurface. So a lot of what I talked about now is
51:15
is about the top side is about the production. So once we leave the reservoir and we go through our well boore to the top side and and then we extract the heat and then we inject back. But of course we're constantly extracting heat from the from water that comes from a reservoir. Uh and then we're injecting the the colder water back into the subsurface. So also knowing uh how that uh how that injection of cold water impacts my reservoir and uh how that evolves over time uh is also important to know. So
51:48
we're also looking into uh DTS. So uh DTS technologies uh where using fiber optics uh we can align our well with the fiber optic cable also to know how is the temperature development across my uh uh across the the vertical of my well what's the temperature down uh downh hall at my reservoir and how will that impact in the long term. So we need to operate our system uh of course we want to operate it over decades uh and that is also the time frames where uh this constant injection of cold water can
52:22
start playing a role also on my uh on my production. If if I don't inject properly or inject too much cold, extract too much heat, then at some point I might be actually uh actually start producing the the same water that I'm injecting. And then of course my whole uh system collapses because I'm not uh producing hot water anymore. I'm just producing the the water I'm already injecting and eventually I cannot extract any uh heat from it anymore. So that brings me to the digital twin
52:57
that we are developing at TNO. We call it the Gemini digital twin. So not to be confused with Google Gemini, their uh their large language model of Google. Uh I think there was some confusion in Monday's session on this. Uh so we we have named our digital twin Gemini uh because it it uh it models a a duplet. Uh so it's sort of a twin system of an uh a production well and an injection well. Uh so we uh we played on the the twin word a bit here. Uh so just to to clarify there. So this is digital twin
53:35
that we've started developing since probably 2017 first internally. Uh and now also more and more together with partners in the Netherlands uh and we're actually uh uh together also with Dutch operators. We're also we they are already using it in their uh uh in their plants uh for their uh their operation. Uh so we see this as well first of all a central location for accessing data. So not just sensor data but also text data can be uploaded to the system and then you have one one central framework from
54:12
which we can access the the data from different parts uh and different types of data. Uh then it should of course provide real-time monitoring capabilities. So we have also integration with uh with graphana where you can uh directly well you can uh build dashboards in graphana and connect your graphana system to uh to your databases uh and you don't have to switch between different uh workflows in Gemini and Graphfana if you're already uh used to one system. Uh then of course we have a bunch of different models. So we have
54:47
the the VP the IPR that you will also be using in the challenge. uh uh we have that integrated also in our system. So there is also an application where you can do those calculations, play around with that uh but we also have models for injectivity uh for the ESP uh for different parts of the system uh to to play around with so you can do scenario analysis what have I changed this parameter uh how will this impact my uh my operation uh and then more and more we're also looking into uh to rag and chatbot
55:21
functionalities to to extract information uh not just from the the sensor time series data but also uh from the from documents and that is also where what inspired this challenge for the geohackon uh to uh cuz we saw it was a it was a challenging uh topic uh and they were looking for a topic to uh to have brilliant minds work on uh so we proposed this uh this system not just rack but even the next step that we haven't even taken ourselves to also develop agentic uh systems and finally the whole uh Gemini is being
56:02
uh uh developed in open source manner. Uh so early next year we have the first uh release of the open source uh system. Everything is is in Python uh and using open source uh uh tools uh such that the the whole sector can make use of it and also contribute themselves to the development of new functionalities. So if you look at what does this look like this open source development this is all the all the systems that we're currently uh working with with of course the core being uh a Python back end and
56:37
flask that serves a uh HTML and JavaScript front end that then using the web browser you can uh interface with uh then most of the tools will be in in Python in the back end but we also have functionalities if that's needed for for certain things to also interact with uh with other external simulators. As long as they have uh a function that can be called from uh from Mlab from Python uh for example Mlab then you can uh you can also embed that into the into the digital uh twin framework of course then
57:15
it uh it interfaces it has a database layer with MySQL influx DBIS and uh and they all have then their connections to different uh sources of the data. So, Aviva, uh, OC, PI, uh, but also more simple things like Excel, CSV, other types of files. And then there's a few also protocols that we're we're looking into in the future. Uh, and then as said, we have a Graphana uh embedding also to directly interface with uh uh with just the raw data coming from your database. uh and then new uh
57:54
what we're developing is also more the the the rack systems uh where we can both use open source methods that we're developing but we also are looking into integration with already existing proprietary proprietary solutions from Azure themselves. So just to give an impression, I'm not going to go through this in uh too much detail. Already spoke quite a while. Uh but yeah, you will start with a general landing page where you sign in. Uh then there's on the left a uh an overview of
58:28
all the different applications functionalities that we developed. So you start with of course setting up the system. So we have a drag and drop uh diagram builder app where you can specify all the components of your uh of your geothermal system and how they are connected to each other. Uh and then uh then from that uh you can double click or right click on all of these systems and provide uh the the parameters uh that should be used in the modeling of these different systems like the ESP or the booster pumps. You can provide the
59:00
the pump curves and then that will be used to do the calculations. in the back end. Then we have uh the time series viewer here. So this is the the graphana embedding. I'm not showing actual data here because it's this is a connection to one of our clients. So I don't think I can uh show all of their data to you. Uh but yeah, they just you can build like Graphana and just log in to your Graphana account from here and then you have all of that directly connected to your digital twin system uh for easy
59:31
access. Uh then we have the well integrity monitoring system where you can define the the schematic of your well. So how what is the layout? What is your your tubing? What is your casing? How deep is it? Uh how do your perforation looks like at your uh uh at your reservoir. Uh and then you can also upload uh measurements being that have been done. So if you have had a caliper being done, so that's where you uh you go into your you uh you shut down your system for a while and then you measure okay what's
01:00:02
the diameter of my uh uh of the well bar uh you can also compare that against what it uh it should be on paper what has been measured and then also over time as you add more uh more measurements to this you can see how your uh how your erosion or corrosion are affecting the the the inner diameter of your your Well, and you can also here add uh uh add warnings for the pressure uh in your analyst. So annular pressure monitoring uh for the different analysis. Uh you can set limits and then uh the system will also uh calculate the
01:00:40
the pressure or take the pressure if there's a measurement present uh and then warn you if you are nearing the the limits that you have set. Then there's the the production uh modeling and this is where the this is the part relating to the the the challenge. So here you can do the the VOP IPR calculations with the back end. Uh you can specify different pump types. You can uh the different settings of your stages of your uh tubing size and then you can also change the the top side pressure. uh and then you can
01:01:17
recalculate your your VP RPR intersection and then see okay what if I change my flow rate or what if I change my pressure how will that impact uh my flow rate uh and then uh how will that later on impact my my economics uh and this is uh so part of the back backend code we have extracted Leila has extracted and made available in a in one in a more simplified workflow that uh you can also use in your that you will be using in your agentic workflow. Uh to uh to basically with one prompt uh uh instead of having to change everything
01:01:54
here manually uh by hand, you have one prompt say I want to uh analyze this this and this go and then the the agent should uh should change part of the the the code and run it and then get back with the results. And then finally we also started implementing this chatbot. Uh so uh we you can upload also files uh reports to the the digital twin. Uh and then with this chatbot you can ask it questions about those files. Uh so here I ask what is the the trooping out diameter of uh of this specific well and then it goes
01:02:32
into the the document. says, "Okay, I found this information." And then gives you the the citations uh uh on where it found this information. And that is also part of uh of the challenge uh is to basically combine the thing I just showed of the VP IPR uh with this uh this chatbot uh in your own implementation. Uh so that gives a bit of an idea of how this uh this should be used in the end. And that brings me to the last two three slides. I have uh so on the the combination of rag and identic AI in
01:03:09
digital twins. So as I said in the the beginning uh these AI systems they of course don't live in isolation. So it's not just that we're developing an AI to develop an AI. Uh in the end this AI should be used in some sort of system. On the other side, uh we have this digital twin that contains quite a lot of uh functionalities uh complex tools uh and workflows all in one system. Uh uh and on the other hand, we have this agentic AI that can try to combine uh workflows. So it is of course
01:03:44
it makes sense to uh combine these two systems where you have an agentic uh AI workflow uh and a digital twin. Uh so we have the the brain uh and the tools the brain can use and combine them where we have uh where a user of this digital twin can uh provide a prompt to the the smart AI system say I want to do this and this uh and then have the system uh actually call the right functionalities in your uh in your digital twin uh in order to uh to make that uh that uh that workflow happen. So with a single prompt
01:04:22
we want to perform nalo analysis using parameters extracted from well reports. So this is of course the whole challenge of the geohhackon. Uh but if you look into the future uh you might also with a single prompt want to filter highlight uh and visualize uh real time as well as historic data in a uh a pleasing way. So I want to say okay well uh chatbot can you please give me all the times uh uh when the the pressure of our system dropped below uh 20 bars uh and can you uh can you make a time series plot where
01:04:56
you highlight all the the the the time frames where this has occurred or for instance automatically calculate certain KPIs and generate status reports. So also something we're looking into with the digital twin operators in the Netherlands. They have to uh every every few weeks or every month they have to to the government provide certain input on how much they have produced uh and and what the pressures were, what the flow rates were uh and that all needs to be always in a similar uh similar workflow uh similar template. So
01:05:32
using uh uh AI or using a digital twin to also streamline that that process can also uh help a lot in in saving time for the operator that they can then use on uh on on tasks that require more of their their human intellect and not the artificial intellect. Uh but you might also use for just general reports. So okay coworker ask a question. Okay, what happened here and here? Well, I asked the the the the AI the the agent, can you generate me a report uh where you calculate this and this uh and then
01:06:10
explain what uh what happened after that and then it should automatically be able to generate that and so on and so on. So we uh we really think that Aentic AI can play quite a big role uh in digital twinning in general. Uh so we're excited to see uh uh what comes out of this uh this challenge and also potentially with the open source release of of Gemini see if uh if we can uh can learn from what has been done in this challenge uh and also potentially uh implement that uh in an open source manner in the future as
01:06:46
well. So with that I have uh come to the end of my presentation. So I would like to thank you for your attention and if there's any questions then uh we can uh go over that uh right now. >> Sure. Thank you very much Jana. It was quite uh informative and also comprehensive presentation or maybe I should have said it. It's a lecture. It was quite a lot of information to learn also for myself. Thanks a lot. >> Thanks foring that. longer than I expected but uh I hope it will >> but it was quite actually interesting
01:07:22
that you could cover from the beginning that you made a uh quite clear about the digital twin definitions because yeah so far we are hearing this a lot but not everybody use it in a right way but yeah it is now quite clear about the from the definition and later on you moved on to the technical part it was also nice to know about the whole uh behind the this technology and also for me it was interesting to know how it is being used in a different sectors and industry. Uh it is actually quite exciting to see
01:07:59
that every uh industry is using this now and of course our uh project on the Gemini is also uh yeah the exciting project and also thanks for make it also clear about the uh challenge itself and how it just came up and also yeah shedding more lights in the uh mission of this uh Joe Hacket. >> No problem. Uh yeah I see now people are posting questions there. I just wanted to remind also the people joined us uh later if you missed some part of the presentation uh this video will be recorded so it
01:08:39
will be available to you later on so you can uh watch it from the beginning and just learn through the presentations. Uh without losing the time I will uh just go through the questions. The first question, are you planning to close the loop and build a link when digital twin gives comment uh back to real world and control wells? >> Yeah, that's a good of course that's important otherwise it's not a digital twin. I think uh that's sort of the vision we're working towards. Uh so if you're very honest at
01:09:15
the moment it's more of a digital shadow. uh but the the also the the way in which you define link depends also on who you you ask. So in the the most generous way you can say okay if any operator uses the information that they have gained uh from the digital twin and and makes a change to uh the physical system then you've also in a way close the loop. Uh so in that sense uh that's something that we're uh now in our project uh working towards. So we have now also given access to to operators in the
01:09:51
Netherlands to to work with it uh and they're playing around with it and also guiding us in the in the in the development and making sure it's it's applicable to uh to the Dutch sector. uh but of course in the end you want to automate that more and there you do also get into a a risk in do you let it do everything. So of course control systems already exist uh so in that sense you have part of a digital twin uh but do you let it run completely autonomously where it uh uh you take your hands of it
01:10:25
and make it do everything. uh for some people that is the ideal uh but for others they they get scared of it and uh I think that's something that should go slowly. So it's a it's a slow process where you give more and more control to the the system uh and uh and the human becomes much more of the supervisor instead of the the actual implement. >> Very good. The second question from Arthur uh he's asking in the Pnid section do most plants have well doumented PNIDs from your experience or
01:11:01
do you have to use the diagram builder? >> Uh yeah good question. So my experiments is experience is that well we do have good PNIDS. Uh but we still need to use the diagram builder because the Pnids we cannot directly already translate P and ID to uh to a uh a reliable diagram. I I think that's also the interest one of the interesting uh directions for uh an agent uh or or yeah an AI system is to uh to be able to extract the information from an a PN ID uh and then populate use that information to populate uh the the
01:11:45
diagram. uh at the moment we're not not there yet but it is a is a nice idea and uh also I think a vision of us to if you really look at automation say okay well I just upload my PN ID and uh and the system uh recognizes all the different uh components and then uh and connections and then builds the diagram for us. uh but that can be quite challenging also uh because what you mentioned the the the the documentation is not always that reliable. So from our experience uh with the people we've worked with yes but uh
01:12:22
also from previous experience that can be uh uh quite difficult and especially older systems you might have scanned in PNIDs of really bad quality that a computer system uh will really struggle with to to recognize. >> Yeah indeed very good point actually. Uh the second uh question from uh yeah uh which component is the most important you prefer to do when enterprise want to do digital train from scratch? The second part of this question is for ENIP NP discipline which part should do digital twin as your thought.
01:13:03
Uh so the first if I understand it correctly is about sort of the components I showed which one should we should you focus on first when you work with a uh a partner to develop a digital twin uh for me uh and that's also what our focus is is on basically the digital infrastructure the processing and and and a bit of the processing but I think the the digital infrastructure uh that is an important one to to start with because that also informs a lot of the other things. So if you define properly in uh uh when you build this
01:13:41
framework how should I define a model and how should that model uh interact with this other model or how should my application make use of that model that is an important thing that you need to think about uh in advance because once if you've already done all of it and then you realize oh well I should actually have changed this or the model should actually be called in this way or we should have defined the model like this and not like this uh then going back and changing all of the the things
01:14:10
uh to this new way of working uh will be a lot of effort. So really this this framework is is quite important the the infrastructure getting the data uh and then making it uh communicate with the other parts of the components is very important and also that's also what we did is to if you make that very general then you can also apply your this framework to a different uh different type of sector or different type of of asset. So for instance we started this this Gemini framework development for
01:14:42
geothermal but we've this sort of uh this architecture layer we've now also used it in power tox systems uh with with heat pumps uh turning uh turning heat uh into uh or electricity into heat uh because we just had to switch around the models of the actual physical systems uh and then all of the other things the architecture and the connection to the database all still worked uh the same as they did before. >> Okay. >> Uh and for the second question uh I don't I I don't have a really an opinion
01:15:23
there. Uh what what should be uh the first thing and in the end it's about impact. So uh something that you use a lot uh is is is something that you should make a digital twin for. uh if it's a very small component that uh that you barely use or you can't really gain a lot from if you if you if you optimize it uh then I wouldn't put that much effort into it. So I would yeah probably uh look at the bigger things first. So either yeah general uh whole plants of course that's also a lot more more work
01:15:59
or you can say okay what are the key components in my system uh and then we work on that first. So if for instance we could have also started with an ESP first uh and it is of course also and I'm pretty sure there are people also making digital twins specifically for ESPs because they are very important components very expensive if they fail uh and they they they are key equipment. So I would try to identify first yeah what are the the the key parts of my system and then see uh can I make a digital twin for that.
01:16:33
Yeah, indeed. And if I maybe I may add something also here. If you're referring ENP as exploration and production discipline, I would say like as you mentioned what wherever you think you can make an impact with this digital twin and what you can actually maybe easier think about it is uh from the production side because uh you do have a lot of sensors and a lot of data that you can just make the connection to the digital twin of the system. But indeed I agree uh with you now. So the next question is uh is it possible
01:17:12
to build a unified database that integrates data from OC softi system and a digital twin platform instead of maintaining them as a separate system. >> Uh good question. I I'm not sure if I'm the the right person to ask that. I think my colleagues know more about the actual data base uh itself. I think it should be possible. Uh but I think that it's also important to make sure that your system uh doesn't lead to too much changes with with people that should use them. So I think if you make everything proprietary
01:17:53
uh the uptake can can be difficult. So of course if people are on board then it might be a better solution to have everything integrated. But if you say okay we make a digital twin for us for the the whole sector uh and everyone yeah then people say yeah well I already have my OCOFT system installed I already have my Aviva database I have my Scada database or everything already working as I know it and uh and that also uh yeah other systems that I have in my company already know how to work with
01:18:24
that uh then it can be easier to just make an something that adapts to what is already sort of standard in the the sector rather than try to push your your new uh new system. Uh but of course if it's if you say well I'm I'm working with just this person just this plant and uh it gives me more benefits to integrate everything uh and or I don't want to be dependent on this uh additional external uh provider anymore then it might uh might be useful to uh to look into integration if the effort
01:18:59
is worth it. >> Yeah thank you very much. I do not see actually more question coming up now but I would like again invite people to just post the questions if there is something unclear or you are interested to know more we will be happy to address them later on also in discord channels you can approach us. Uh but thanks again Yona for the very nice presentation and also the engaging discussion Q&A was quite interesting for me as well to just yeah learn more and also hear more ideas about the participant as well. Just
01:19:36
before closing the session I would like also to invite you stay tuned to these uh boot camps. We will have the next one introduction to NLP and LLM uh as the next sessions. So we will have uh the complete coverage of the whole language models uh background in these boot camps and uh yeah and hopefully everybody can get benefits from it. So if there is no more questions and if you know if there is no more points to add. >> No yeah thanks for uh for attending and the nice discussion as well and thanks
01:20:09
Ila for hosting. >> Thank you very much.